<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="application_layout_options">
    <title>Application Layout Options</title>
    <body>
        <p>The <uicontrol>Application Layout</uicontrol> preferences allow you to customize the appearance and behavior of the application's main window and editor interface. The following options are available:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Select application layout</dt>
                <dd>
                    <ul>
                        <li>
                            <uicontrol>Default</uicontrol>: Uses the standard layout provided by the application.
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <uicontrol>Predefined</uicontrol>: Allows you to select from predefined layouts. (Note: In the current view, this option is disabled.)
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol>: Lets you specify a custom layout file. Use the provided field and buttons to load or save a custom layout configuration.
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Reset layout at startup</dt>
                <dd>If selected, the application layout will be reset to the chosen configuration each time the application starts.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Remember layout changes for each project</dt>
                <dd>If enabled, the application will remember and restore layout changes individually for each project.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Allow detaching of editors from main window</dt>
                <dd>If selected, you can detach editor tabs from the main window and move them to separate windows.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>View tab placement</dt>
                <dd>
                    Specifies the position of view tabs within the application window:
                    <ul>
                        <li>
                            <uicontrol>Top</uicontrol>: Places view tabs at the top of the view area.
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <uicontrol>Bottom</uicontrol>: Places view tabs at the bottom of the view area.
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Editor tab placement</dt>
                <dd>
                    Specifies the position of editor tabs within the application window:
                    <ul>
                        <li>
                            <uicontrol>Top</uicontrol>: Places editor tabs at the top of the editor area.
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <uicontrol>Bottom</uicontrol>: Places editor tabs at the bottom of the editor area.
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p>
            <b>Note:</b> To apply these changes, you must restart the application.
        </p>
    </body>
</topic>
