<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="mcp_options_reference">
    <title>Model Context Protocol Options</title>
    <body>
        <p>The <uicontrol>Model Context Protocol</uicontrol> preferences panel, found in 
            <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Oxygen AI Positron Assistant</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Model Context Protocol</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>, 
            provides configuration options for connecting Oxygen AI Positron Assistant to external tools and data sources using the Anthropic Model Context Protocol (MCP).
        </p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Configuration file</dt>
                <dd>
                    Specifies the path to the MCP configuration file (for example, <code>${pd}/positron-ai-actions/mcp-config.json</code>). 
                    This file defines the available MCP tools and their settings. 
                    Use the folder icon to browse for a file, or enter the path manually. 
                    A link to <uicontrol>Configuration file structure</uicontrol> is provided for reference.
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Connection timeout (seconds)</dt>
                <dd>
                    Sets the maximum time (in seconds) to wait for a connection to an MCP server before timing out. 
                    The default value is <code>10</code> seconds.
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Allow running local MCP servers</dt>
                <dd>
                    If selected, enables the use of MCP servers running on the local machine. 
                    This is useful for development or testing scenarios where a local MCP server is available.
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Add provided tools to all chat modes</dt>
                <dd>
                    If selected, the tools defined in the MCP configuration file are made available in all chat modes of the AI Positron Assistant.
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Connection status</dt>
                <dd>
                    Displays the current status of the MCP configuration and connection. 
                    For example, if the configuration file is not found, an error message is shown with the file path.
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Allow running the Oxygen XML application as a local MCP server (Experimental)</dt>
                <dd>
                    If selected, allows the Oxygen XML application itself to act as a local MCP server. 
                    This is an experimental feature and may be subject to change.
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Global Options / Project Options</dt>
                <dd>
                    Choose whether the settings apply globally to all projects or only to the current project.
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p>
            <uicontrol>Restore Defaults</uicontrol> resets all options to their default values. 
            Use <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save changes, <uicontrol>Cancel</uicontrol> to discard them, or <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> to apply changes without closing the dialog.
        </p>
    </body>
</topic>
